OK, So this is our agenda for today.
OK.
Timewise, we're probably talking about a couple of hours.
I did explain that.
Gonna look at your objective for today's meeting.
I'm gonna explain my role here at Mango Bank and I've advised property issue.
I'll go through our disclosures.
Here at Mango Bank, your future plans, objectives and your current circumstances are gather on a fact.
Find hmm.
Existing investments.
You said you've invested many, many, many years ago.
Nothing.
You've got nothing at the minute and identify areas of needs to discuss.
So we're gonna go through a full financial review, which means I'll look at all your areas.
Sure.
So look at pension.
I know you're retired, but look at pensions.
Look at protection and look at it.
Britain's tax liability.
By establishing what you've got, I'll guide you the right way.
And perfect.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Discussing.
Agree your feelings towards risk, which is gonna be a big part of our meeting.
Yes.
Agree.
Next steps and book a second meeting.
OK with that.
Yeah, fine.
Thank you.
Can I just ask a quick question? How old are you? Sorry,
I'm 63.
That's it.
I'm throwing things around now.
Good job.
Yes.
So realistically, the reason you've come to see me is because you've moved from London to here because, like you just explained to me, your daughter moved, you were babysitting.
It was just you fell in love with and you got surplus funds sitting in your account.
I do.
And you want to look for a home for some of that money.
That's why you're here.
HM
you've
got enough income coming in.
You just want growth for this money.
You divorce, which was about 30 years ago.
So you're single and what you're looking for, the objective is to get.
Actually returns and try and sort of keep up with inflation.
Not really any specific term or amount, it's just you want to keep up with inflation.
You do have 10,000 we need to keep aside, which I won't take you to the equation for a car that you may think about buying HM.
You don't pay into a pension and you've potentially make, well, you will get a state pension in four years time, so you can draw on your private pension, don't you?
Got my income at the moment is this is part private pension.
I think you'll find the standard of living will be better than it was in London.
I guess with you pension you probably get
I I'm waiting to sort of get.
Yeah, find out.
I think that probably would help, wouldn't it? Yeah.
Nobody
financially dependent on you.
You're not dependent on anybody and no health issues that would have an impact.
Correct.
I think the only thing that I was gonna add to that was I think I mentioned I wanted to put a bit of an amount of money my my granddaughters name
as well transfer that.
Yeah.
So I'll keep that.
Obviously I won't take that into the equation.
We'll do that as well.
So how much were you thinking of transferring to your daughters
for her? I was thinking, I don't know if it's possible to do that 100,000, so quite a chunk.
Granddaughter.
Yeah.
Or
I don't know what, it won't be tax
free.
OK.
Because you will be tax because there's only a certain amount that you're allowed to transfer.
How much would that be that be 3000 a year or something.
But then he said the seven-year rule or something very inheritance only rather than tax.
So have you got any inheritance tax liability? Is that what you're doing it? Is that the reason why you're thinking of doing it? Partly, Yes as well.
OK, let's have a look and see if you have.
Yeah.
HM Is the property going to your daughter? You have an additional 175, three 2/5.
So does it take you above
that does
does it
So
yeah.
But if you give that money to your granddaughter and obviously you won't be able to get access to that that's that's given and that sort of course.
So you you can do that.
Yes, it's
if that's what you did you say that that would be taxable now as well or is that the
because no, if you're doing the seven-year rule you need to obviously sort it out with the solicitor and
speak with a solicitor has to be done.
Yeah, because you can leave the money there, but you need something in writing.
You need something legally to sort out, isn't it? So obviously I can't sort that out for you can't put the money in that account.
But obviously it's.
I think it needs to be in your world to say that I have actually given On this date X amount of money.
Yeah.
Needs to be sorted in that way.
OK.
So obviously I'll disregard that money because that's money that
I need to sort it, Yeah.
Of that you think about it, sure, because if that's what you want to do, then definitely OK because anything above your state.
Would be obviously 40% tax exactly paid.
Now obviously with me going through this now you've just mentioned that.
So do you wanna take that advice first or are you sort of wanting me to
probably to do that advice first maybe because you're right, I'm thinking of investing the other money.
But then once it's invested, I guess as you say it's tied with the house and then if I haven't done anything with it, it will be over 30%, won't it? Yeah.
So because I mean I've not had a look what inheritance tax liability as you've got her anything.
So because you want that sorting out first you need to see an independent financial.
I see what you mean.
Oh, OK Well though rather than cancel today's meeting up, can I put that to one side and I will speak.
Sorry, I thought that was something we could do.
So how much is your house worth now
Four.
Well 440?
And then obviously with the savings you've got, which is roughly about 250, isn't it roughly
probably a bit more than that actually.
Yeah, we'll have a look.
I'll let you know.
We'll let you know how much you have got above.
Yeah, we'll work that out.
So now, OK, So you want to have a look at this
first and then I'll go back and do it that
way round.
Sure.
OK.
No problem.
So I'm gonna show you now,
please.
Your journey with us, I'm just gonna go through.
You financial planning journey you said you've done many years ago.
I did, yes.
OK.
I think that's when I said all the Isas up and
different things, but
quite a while ago, definitely.
Yeah, sure.
So do you know anything about Mango Bank?
HM you tell me probably obviously nowhere near as much as I should.
Mango Bank is a leading retail bank which was founded in 1928 and its headquarters in London.
So we got to know about Mango Bank, OK? And it's a massive bank.
It's present in three countries and four core markets.
As you can see, it's worldwide and is among the world's top banks.
Market capitalisation.
There's a bit of reassurance as well, doesn't it? Sure.
And holds over a trillion in total customer funds.
We are ring fenced from Mango Bank International and Mango Bank UK is also one of the leading financial services providers in the UK.
It serves around 14 million active customers.
It's purpose is to help people and businesses prosper away.
That's simple, personal fair.
And our customers are protected by the Financial Services Compensation scheme in the UK.
So basically under the deposit umbrella up to 85,000 is covered.
Investments come under a different umbrella, all right, so would be protected under that umbrella.
But once I know what you're gonna do, that's what I'll explain.
Approach to financial planning.
So he what we offer is what we call restricted advice.
So that doesn't restrict you in the fact that we invest your money worldwide.
Different asset classes, different funds.
The restriction basically means that the administration is kept with Mango Bank,
right? Yeah.
And the restricted products we have is fixed term investments which is administered by Mango Bank ISA and selected fund ranges which is provided by Mango Bank International.
OK, OK.
So far so good.
So it's not whole of market then it's purely just about an area.
So it in the sense we don't sort of do the whole of the market in the sense look at other, your investment will be invested worldwide with different asset classes, HM, but obviously the administration is with Mango Bank.
So you know we don't have the whole of the market portfolio because you're under the Mango Bank umbrella.
Sure.
OK.
I'm not independent financial adviser,
I thought you was sorry the first.
OK.
Right.
That makes a lot more
sense.
Yeah.
So I get employed by Mango Bank.
So when you take financial advice, there's advisory, this charges for advice.
I make that open and transparent, which I will do, but that doesn't come to me, That advisory, I get paid regardless whether you do or don't, right.
That fees paid to Mango Bank? Sure.
Independent financial adviser, it's their own business.
Whatever they charge, they get.
I get paid regardless.
My job is just to make sure that you've got the right.
Solutions for you.
OK,
thank you.
Yeah, it means it's restricted, more restricted in terms of what's actually out there, is it?
Well, not realistically because even when you've got whole of the market, they don't deal even though they say they do, that there's only certain companies they'll deal with as well, right.
So the restriction basically means, yes, I wondered, Mango Bank and the products that we obviously restricted to will be, obviously we're not sent to their products, we do invest.
Black Rock, Fidelity, M&G, we do invest in other funds as well, right? OK.
But it's just the restriction.
We're not the whole of the market.
OK.
That's good to know.
Thank
you.
Yeah.
Is that OK? Yeah, that's fine.
OK, make your dreams a reality.
So today is to get to know you.
So today I'm not gonna make any recommendations.
I'll have it's all about how you want, how much you wanna invest, what level of risk you're comfortable with.
It's all about me getting to know you today.
Is that OK? But when we explore your needs and wants, we break up your funds into three.
OK, so short term is keeping money available for emergencies.
Yes, something in your current account that you can get access to.
Something like the car breaks down.
Breaks down the medium term again is in cash deposit accounts.
It's money there that you may need for the future holidays.
May wanna give it to kids, whatever, it's there so.
It's there.
Just fall back off once we're both comfortable.
This is where we have a conversation.
You've got enough in these two parts.
That's when I look at the longer term to try and make sure that it's doing what it needs to do rather than sit and erode with inflation.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Fine.
Thank you.
OK, once I've done that, disappeared.
Now, once we've got to know you today and got to know what you want to do, I'll prepare my advice, which will be on a detailed report, which I'll present to you next time.
And then when I present my advice, I'll go through all charges.
You'll know everything before you make an informed decision, right? All the charges, everything that fund manager charges.
I'll tell you about the advisory service fee.
Now, any other fees and charges? I'll explain everything you took the second meeting,
OK? I think that was partly one of the reasons I actually left Banana Bank was that initially obviously everything went well and I know things go up and down, but I noticed for quite a few years, I was at working at a loss for about 5 years, HM.
So that was why I decided HM on the investments that I'd had.
Within each year, I saw that the amount that they were taking was more than what's going actually is.
So
do you know what kind of investment you had? Was it premium investment?
I can't remember.
To be.
It's happy.
Or did you do something with Banana Bank?
It was I think, when we first moved to Mango Bank.
Yeah, quite a while back.
Oh, no, hang on a minute.
No, maybe it wasn't actually.
No.
I think thinking about it now, it may have been with Banana Bank.
It was before I moved to Mango Bank.
That's what it was.
It wasn't with you, It was
with Banana Bank.
OK, that makes sense to me because there's nothing here that's just you had.
You
see, I'm moved across to Mango Bank because everything was just so it seemed that it all started off really well.
But then as the years went, I noticed that the interest was falling and then the charges started getting higher than anything I was making, which seemed ridiculous.
OK.
It's ridiculous, isn't it? Mm-hmm.
So that's why we made you aware of all the charges.
Everything.
So no, everything before you make that informed decision, which you need to because you don't mind paying as long as you know what you're
paying.
That's exactly I know.
Like I said today, I'm not gonna give you any advice, but I will next time, a little.
Look, not that past performance is a guide to the future, but you'll know everything, so you can make that informed decision, right? Paying for our advice.
So you'll pay for our financial planning service by an advisory service fee, which is paid when you invest.
So when you do with Banana Bank, depending when you did it, I don't know whether you paid an advisory service fee or Commission used to be commissioned in the past, but now it's open and transparent.
So we tell you exactly what it's gonna cost you before you take advice.
OK,
Yeah, so there's no advisory service fee if you choose not to invest.
Advisory service fee will be refunded if you decide to invest but cancel within your relevant cancellation.
The advisory service fee relates only to advice provided on investment and doesn't include any fees for advice provided on non investment products such as life insurance.
A Financial Planning services covered by Advisory Service Terms and Conditions.
These are detailed in your About our Financial Planning Service document.
Before we go ahead with the next meeting, you need to make sure you're happy with these as well as the appropriate advisory service fee.
Now.
It's important that you regularly review your investments.
Yeah, you don't automatically call you in.
And the reason we don't do that is obviously our overlooking A5 year term and I think don't think much is gonna change within 12 to 18 months or two years.
So and the FCA said we have to charge to call you in for review.
So we'll leave the onus is on yourself.
So as and when you want to review just pick the phone up and we'll do it as and when you want it, OK.
Which makes sense.
Assume that there'd be like an annual statement
or something.
Anyway, depending on what you what investment it is 1/4 segment.
And if you do online banking, you know what it is.
Perfect.
There you go.
OK, so it's the advisory service fee is on top of what you invest and it's 2% of the amount invested.
Minimum is 400, maximum is 5000 pounds.
Say for example invested 50,000, the advisory service fee would be 1000.
Now because this is an open-ended investment, you can invest a regular amount.
So if you've got surplus funds and it's actually doing nothing sitting in your current account, you can invest it because it gives you that pound cost averaging option as well.
So if you did do 100.00 for example, that 100 pounds would be times by 36 months.
So investing 5000 pounds is 3600.
It gets added onto the 50 and the advisory service fee is worked on that 53,600.
Right.
Sorry, I didn't
quite investing 50,000 as a lobster.
Yeah, that's 1000 pounds.
Yes.
But you do also decide to do a regular amount each.
That's 100 pound.
Yeah, that would be times by 36 months.
Yeah.
Which make it 3600 added onto the 50.
That's what the advisory said.
That's fine.
But I don't know you're gonna do.
I want to know that.
I'll explain that
to you.
I think, to be honest, it's probably just gonna be the amount invested rather than adding to it because I don't think I can afford
to add.
We'll have a look at it, yeah, definitely.
I just, I don't want to pass
by.
Data protection.
All the information we hold your news data protected.
None of the information is passed on to any third party unless we're leaving about to do that.
You have opted out marketing material, correct.
That's fine.
You happy with that? Yeah.
OK, perfect.
Not a problem.
Right.
These are the terms and conditions of the advisory service about financial planning service that's just gone through now.
It's an important document, so highly recommend you read it.
Either can read it now relate.
It's entirely up to you on the back page.
One happy for your mum, for me on the back page of doing the digital sign.
And what you're signing for is I confirm acceptance of these advisory service terms and conditions.
I want to receive advice from Mango Bank.
Explain to you there's an advisory service fee and you're happy to receive advice from me.
That's all it is.
So you're not paying anything.
You're not doing anything.
Is that you're happy for me to give you advice.
That's all it is.
Thank you.
And that's why it's important to read with what I went through.
But these are the terms and conditions of the
presentation is to be signed now before we or or wait till you do the advice.
Can't do the advice I need.
OK,
but the funds, as you say, it's not confirming payment
or anything.
Nothing at all? No, no.
Even at the second minute meeting you won't confirm it unless you're happy and then I'll tell you where it's coming from.
Different things anyway.
The
7th of 888.
That OK, that's perfect.
Fine that's that's
that's your thank you.
OK, now I'm gonna go into the fact find and this is where I'm gonna gather personal financial information.
So I need to be open and honest because that's what I'm gonna use sure to base my recommendations and the last thing I wanna do is give you the wrong advice.
So let's go through this.
Have you seen somebody before?
Not here, no.
Say it was at Banana Bank.
I did the
OK, OK, so you've not seen anybody here then? Not
that I remember.
OK,
so planned expenditure for a car and potentially 100.00 for grandma, grandma, grandchild.
OK.
HM Keep your cash reserve, invest for growth and retirement planning, which is I know you're retired, but there's tax benefits are paying into a pension, so I'll make you aware of that, give you an idea on that, OK?
It's OK.
When did you retire?
I can't remember the exact date.
OK, what did you used to do?
Account sales manager, but I gave it up to look after my elderly mother who was very poorly.
So I became a carer for a couple of years and unfortunately she died during lockdown.
So again, hence the need why I can now move from London.
Yeah, HM, you.
You born in the UK? Yeah.
You're UK national.
Yes.
You don't have to nationality UK domicile.
UK resident intend to remain in the UK and not plans of moving to the US and become a UK citizen.
And no health issues that would have an impact going forward.
No.
OK, perfect.
Yeah, we've got your address here because it's all their stuff away and you've got your details here.
Have you paid? You said you've not paid into an ISA for this tax year.
I think it's perfect.
And the funds have come because you don't, well, not downsize, but you moved, haven't you? So that's where the fund, how much did you sort of? Gain from moving from London to here then just.
About 300, No, 200, sorry.
What would it be? About 275, I think.
OK, we're about to London.
Were you then
W London?
OK.
So you draw on your private pension down, don't you? I do.
How much do you get coming in
at the moment? ER, did you want it monthly or annually?
Whatever you got is the greatest.
2600 and 688.
That's on.
You're losing.
It is.
Yeah.
OK.
And you drew that out four years ago, did you?
Yes, No, two, two years ago, 60, OK.
When did you turn 60? Sorry, which one? July, July wasn't there? It's coming back.
So did Mum live in London as well? Then?
She lived with me.
Oh, OK to live with me, OK?
OK.
And how much is your house worth now
of 440?
OK? Is there a mortgage on it? No.
You have to pay it for Mum as well, or Mum's estate.
She didn't have one.
Oh, so that's that's good for you.
At least you've not had to pay that, no.
OK.
Do you have any liabilities, any debts? No.
You've got a credit card for something.
I take, I take that clear that
regularly.
I cleared it.
Actually I was in branch today.
OK.
It's just convenient to have, isn't it?
It is, yes.
Then you can just buy what you want and then not worry in a sense
exactly.
It's been a lot of expense obviously moving into a new place as well, so.
And I think also it's my own insurances with you at this time of year,
OK, Everything gets paid at this.
Everything's
gone out this month
just before Christmas, eh? Yep.
Do you know the last time I moved, it was I worked it out 23 years ago to the month to the date.
OK.
Oh my God.
I remember having all of this to do again at the same time.
So you just got one daughter that lives in? Yeah.
Yes.
Just one child,
22 grandchildren.
Sorry.
Yeah, sorry, there's two grandchildren.
The the younger one, I'm thinking of more.
He's got health issues, which is why I wanted to give a little bit extra help to her.
OK.
Do you have any life insurance? Critical illness
policy? I've got life insurance at the moment.
The value on it is 18,581.
OK Who's it with?
Royal London.
OK.
I think it's got 6000 fatal accident on it as well in addition,
OK, so it's just life insurance is yeah.
Is it whole of life or is it got a term on it? A whole of life? Life.
OK.
1000 sent to me.
I've put it in trust.
Have you put the policy in trust?
No I haven't.
OK, That's something I suggest you do as well.
I think I did ask them about it, but they said it wasn't possible.
Ohh, OK
because it's such an old one.
I've had it for so many years.
Yeah.
Which is a bit of a pain, but.
So I'll go into your estate, won't it? That's fortunately, yeah,
but I think they just said it wasn't feasible or they they wouldn't move it for me.
So
OK, I have no choice.
Yeah, how much do you pay for it?
At the moment, each month it's 7.55.
Is it?
And are you happy with that do you wanna?
Yeah, I'm.
I've been playing it for so many years.
I think I took it out when I started work when I was 16.
So OK, it's, it was obviously a lot more at the time but it it's dropped down over the years,
of course, because obviously at 16 you would it would be in the 70s, wouldn't it?
Oh, I think it was only about 36 or something back then but it was
in the 70s.
I was
saying oh I see.
Sorry.
Yes, Yes.
26 I took, you're right.
Done the premiums, obviously because you took it younger.
It just makes a difference, isn't it?
But I I figure it would pay for a funeral and whatever else.
Yeah.
It's sort of, yeah.
As long as I don't with the I it inheritance tax lose 40% of it, yeah, it should still cover the funeral.
OK.
Just got funny.
There we go.
You said you're happy with it, but this isn't happy with it.
For some reason the computer's not happy with it.
Ohh what it doesn't.
No, no, it's just the dates that's all.
It's just throwing up little bit above it weren't accept today's date and then.
There we go.
That's fine.
Sorted.
Sometimes it doesn't register.
That's all it is.
So you're happy with that? OK, you're.
And you've not got a pension.
I I have private pensions, yes, I've got to pay into that.
I don't pay into them, but I still have three that
I haven't claimed Excellent.
So let's take those on board.
So.
Who's the first one with?
The first one is standard.
And it's just in.
ER, was it a personal pension that you?
OK, Well, as a company pension,
OK, yeah.
Thank you and Standard Life.
You know net relevant earnings.
There isn't any now because you don't have any income apart from what?
Do.
Within the value of it, do you know what I'm saying? Yes,
in November, this last month it was 37,000 and 43 pound.
Do you know what you could get annually or anything? Have you had that statement, Had a look,
But to be honest, it's peanuts I think at the moment.
Well, it's possibly just gone up, but
let's just to leave it.
Yeah.
I think my thought is with that again is to leave it for my daughter because I think that is outside IH.
OK.
So who's that with?
The second one is with Aviva.
OK.
And that was a company pension as well.
Take it.
Yes, OK.
That's.
And.
And she's that
That's 36,550.
You don't contribute to any of these.
Well.
So they're the pensions, that's all the pensions I've got, OK?
Now, do you know anything about pensions at all?
I know that I probably could have paid into it, but to be honest, while I wasn't working and the last few years I haven't had the money to put into it unless I took it out or something else.
So.
I believe I it was part of it would have been tax free and I understand that if I need to draw and then I can take 25% tax free.
Yeah.
I
I've had.
So what I'm exactly.
I can't give you pension advice.
I'm just gonna give you some factual information.
So even though like you said, even though you're retired, you can still pay into these pensions and to keep your tax efficient, the maximum we can put in is 2880.
That, well, maximum is 3600, but what you can put in is 2880 because I'm not working.
Yeah.
And then you get an uplift of 20% from the government, which makes it 3600,
right.
OK, yeah.
So you can do that from your savings if you wanted to.
Yeah, maybe that's the way to go then for it.
Yeah, because I haven't got HM, I can't give you 20% uplift in anything.
Sure.
So when you take come to take it out 25% tax free and the remainder you can draw as an income or lump sum and it's,
it's outside the IH which is the best bit of all really and so topping up.
Seems to be a good way to go, except to say that both of them seem to be performing
quite poorly at the moment.
Yeah, because of the time, of course.
Yeah, Yeah.
But I was hoping maybe now with inflation and everything else, that they might start to pick up soon too.
Yeah,
but that is an option that you can add to.
Presumably I'd need to go to them direct
and let them know I want to start making contributions to.
You can put a lump sum in or a regular amount.
A lump sum, Right, 2800,
just do that, it would, you say? Flitting between them all.
Independent advice if you want to, and if you want some advice, then obviously.
I don't know.
If you do then let me know and then we can sort that out.
But you can add to those.
Perfect.
That's I think the definitely something I'm gonna do straight away then
sense makes total sense, doesn't it? Just tell me that.
So we need to keep an additional 2880 because you need to put that in.
And that's presumably up until the end of March and then I can do the
following year, yes.
I'll figure if I don't put the notes on, yeah, not a good idea.
25.
OK.
Right.
So oops.
So you are a new rate taxpayer by the way.
I am, yes.
Which is
come about 1000 chalks,
yes.
And you're not planning to draw on these benches, So I take it you're not gonna change, It's gonna stay taxpayer going forward.
Yeah.
Actually at the moment this year I am a taxpayer by about 50 over because I did some private work for OK charity earlier in the year, but that won't be happening again now.
So the next year will be completely tax free.
Do you know what capital gains tax is? Yes.
OK.
It's not something that you utilise, I take it.
No.
OK, perfect.
HM, right, so sorted.
And the liabilities? Protection we've sorted out and your expenditure now.
So let's look at what your outgoings are.
They they were more.
I've got other income is not income but other savings as well.
I don't know do you need to do all savings first do that.
No do this outgoings.
After it's OK, No, no problem.
So council tax?
Yeah, outgoings.
Pretty much the same as my comings.
I think it's in.
Goes 98864 and out goes 96724.
OK.
So have you got breakdown? Yeah.
Council tax currently, Yeah.
Council tax
160,
OK.
OK, then we've got gas, electricity, water.
Yeah,
at the moment I've got 65, but I'm pretty sure that's gonna be doubling in.
Actually, maybe I should double it now because it's gonna go over otherwise.
130, yeah.
OK.
Water.
Water again.
I'm waiting to find out.
But I suspect 70.
Oh no, seven.
Will it be that here?
About 3031,
let's change.
Bring that down to 30 here
usually sounds the
what happened was I went to a metre last year so I've only been paying 5 a month
OK year
because it went down significantly so it's no what the new one be here.
OK.
And then brought back broadband.
Broadband 3950.
And telephone?
HM telephone.
That would be probably mobile, which I've got down as where is it? 7-7
pounds, OK.
OK so then car.
So your petrol car, insurance, Rd tax.
I kind of do.
The more different I I've worked out differently because I have a sub account for my of my own to pay for insurance, Rd tax or all of that sort of thing.
So that comes under a slightly different banner HM so I sort of put 300 a month away for insurances MOT's S I've got a whole list of other stuff that only comes up annually.
OK, so 300 would cover that,
would it? Would 300 a month? Yeah.
OK.
And food and clothing.
Food, clothing.
I keep another one for three hundred a month, which is food, clothing and petrol,
OK.
HM Is there any hobbies that you do that cost you anything?
There are, but they're included in that 300 as well.
Spine OK, no problem.
And holidays? Do we pay them as lump sums or a regular amount from your
lump sums that might come out of another fund? Depending.
I haven't been away for
quite a while, but yeah, so do we need to include that at the minute?
HM.
Maybe I should put 100 a month in for that as well perhaps just to cover it.
Yeah I think that's gonna set me way over the top
of what my income is says.
Shall we
take it let's take it out and then I can just use the the other fund for it.
So will it leave it out
so there's nothing else is there as we've covered everything
So in fact actually one of the three hundreds I think it covers Christmas birthdays things like
that as well.
So it's
pretty much everything.
OK okeydokey so your monthly.
Incoming obviously.
Well, let's do the savings, but at the minute because the savings will have some interest on it, won't it? So the minute you've got.
96724 coming in.
Mm-hmm.
There's a shortfall of 7.31.
No, sorry, come in, in.
Is 98864 going out? Is 96724.
Let me just.
I think maybe I've not added it up very well on there for you.
OK, let me just.
Yeah.
So your pension is 11,606 and 88.
Yes.
Which comes, oh, sorry, no, no, my mistake.
I I've done it wrong.
My pension is, it's not that.
Let me work it out.
It's nine, eight, 864 * 12.
I I see what I've done.
I've multiplied by my outgoing rather than income.
HM What is it? Monthly
988-649-9886,
four.
OK, fine.
Don't worry,
I'll get now.
Is the 96724
OK? That's fine.
That makes sense around.
Yeah, that makes sense to you now, don't it? Yeah, 98864, So you've got 14.00 surplus each month, which is what you said is pretty much on par with what you've got coming in and going out.
So obviously, OK.
Savings and investments.
So let's just double check what you've got here.
So you've got 200.
HM and one of those accounts, actually, I'm gonna be closing shortly because it was my mother's account, but I looked after it for her.
So I'm separate with,
which is Mum's account, the 1540.
So I need to take that out.
Yeah, if we could do, please, that's
fine.
I need to divide that up amongst family and send it to them.
OK, no problem.
So 218.
Right.
I'm sorry.
Do you think? OK.
So 123 there isn't, is it interest up to the 20,000 above that there isn't obviously so.
OK.
And then the cash ISA which you've got? Which is got 10,419 currents in there.
That interest rate is crazy, so.
Dokey.
So 228,708, that's what we've got, isn't it?
and 18200 and 28228, Yes 7/08/17.
P 708 Really.
OK.
So yeah, 700 and 47742.
You inheritance tax liability, Yeah.
So you're allowed 500,000 exactly.
And there's more actually on top of that as well.
I've got that will probably fall into it.
So have you got funds elsewhere? Yeah.
OK, let's add those on there.
So the first one I've got is a shares,
yeah.
And the value of those at today's I think is 27,000
who's the shares with
Microsoft.
OK.
So you've got 21,000 and 2727 with them? They're just single shares you do.
Did you buy them?
One? I work for the companies as it was, Reuters.
OK.
I take it you've seen them go up and down.
They actually, to be fair with that company, they've only ever gone up,
OK,
Only ever gone up.
Some of them I bought at ridiculously low prices.
Life just helped them for years.
So did you invest in them yourself as well or did you just do the same
share save? OK,
yeah,
it was well worth it.
And they gave free shares as well.
OK.
But you do know, obviously that's the highest risk.
There's only one share, isn't there?
Oh, sorry, it's not just one share, it's 720 shares.
Sorry.
No, no, no, that's fine.
No, no, no.
What I'm saying is only invested in one company.
It is.
But in fairness, I've had it with them for 30 years.
Yeah, no, no, that's fine.
I'm just saying, I know it's no diversification.
Told me to move it, but with the amount that it's gone up, I mean, they're worth 38 now.
I paid about 5 for them.
OK.
You paid 5 and worth what?
ER, 3838 pound now.
So I mean, even if they did fall significantly.
I just think that they're the safest bet for me that I I've never wanted to move.
That's
totally fine.
It was just so there's not diversified in different companies.
I wanna say it's just with one.
Yeah that's the only thing I'm aware of the risk
but happy with it.
Yeah that's one risk I'm not I am risk adverse.
Apart from that,
OK who's?
With the other one is Premium Bonds.
So you've got Premium Bonds, OK.
They're in cash, so there's no to that.
So National Savings, have you won on these?
Oh, yes, OK.
And in fact, we're not big, not big at all.
But every little helps, as they say.
In fact, actually I need to look it up because I've just won again this week.
Excellent.
So I think they pay more interest.
In the last year, I've had more interest from those than I have in any other account.
How much have you got in there, 6300? And anything else, I think that's it for now.
Yeah.
So that does take your body inheritance tax liability, which we'll finish off and then, yeah, I can tell me what you want to do really.
OK.
So knowledge and experience, you've got these shares, yes, HM, but I guess it's limited experience because it's not something that you bought it share save scheme, wasn't it? But you said you invested with Banana Bank as well.
What was that
HM? Do you know? I can't even remember now
HM.
I it, it was.
So it was about
20 years ago.
OK.
So do you think it was unit trust and or exhaust stocks and shares and I think it was more stocks
and shares but they didn't perform very well at all.
OK.
HM
Yeah.
And do you know what kind of risk you did? It took
I think at the time it was medium risk as I was a lot younger back then.
But to be fair, I think my risk level is these days as I'm getting older, it is reducing.
I totally understand that as well.
I think as you get older, you do tend to be a little bit more cautious, isn't it?
So yeah, you
from what you say, you lost money on that, didn't you? I think it's through that late is at 3:00.
O'clock.
Yeah, the closer branch at 3:00.
That's fine.
We're fine because we're in here.
Thank you.
Yeah.
So you just lost money basically from what you're saying, aren't you? I did
that.
That was through that.
W
absolutely.
Yeah.
Have you ever invested in structured in deposits? No structured investments?
HM No, I don't think so.
Actually
thinking about it with Banana Bank,
they did used to send me a plan on it.
It wasn't just shares, it was it other investments or different things and they sent me AM.
I remember it was some sort of plan where it was a  design.
Show me where everything was.
That's it.
They did do asset
classes.
Yes, Now you mentioned it unit trust analytics.
I don't know would have been included in that sort.
If it's if it's
if it's outside of stocks and shares ISA, then it could have been.
If it's if it's a, if it was invested in Pepsi stocks
and shares, I don't know.
I think it was outside of stocks and shares and because thinking about it, the pie, I remember them saying part of it was in Asia and it was all scattered
around.
So that investment could be in a nicer and it could be outside an ISA.
It the ISA is just the wrapper.
All right.
OK.
So OK.
I'm not sure of anything honest.
OK.
I don't think I've got the information.
No, it's fine.
It's just trying to ask whether, you know, remember it.
So it's been a little while.
So yeah, no problem.
Investment bonds, no.
OK.
And venture capital trust is a high risk investment which I assume you haven't
Well I think that they put 5% in or they broke this percentage down into high risk, medium risk
and then low risk.
So as they had a portfolio funds folio, yeah, so venture capital trust would be something that.
No, I don't think you would have done that unless you earned X amount of money and you had low.
I don't think so.
And you cash in 20 years ago, do you say
yes, probably not quite 20 years? Maybe 15 years ago, I cashed in.
And can you remember what you lost? Probably about 5000.
Do you know what you originally put in then?
It would have been about maybe 20,000 or something.
OK.
So quite a significant chunk.
Yeah, over those years.
How long did you leave it in?
About 5 years? OK, so the first two years went really well, but then the next two years and when I queried it with them, they said, oh, of course it goes up, it goes down, but it will balance out, leave it, leave it.
About the end of the five years it was all going in One Direction and there was
absolutely fund managers weren't doing what they needed to do then really isn't it at the end of the day.
Oh, shoot.
That's yeah.
OK.
OK, OK.
HM Yes, fluctuation.
So you have experienced volatility.
You have seen it go up and down.
But once you manage yourself, do you see, if you don't, then that's fine.
I would say you're an investor once, an experienced investor, no.
Yeah.
HM.
OK, so now with the money you've got, we're gonna talk about the three pots.
OK.
Yeah.
You OK with that? Umm.
OK.
So let's.
Pick up.
Sorry about that.
Don't.
Somebody else is on there, which you don't need.
Just bear with me.
OK.
There we go.
Two, say you're an investor and you said your monthly outgoings is 9.
96724.
OK.
In total money you've guys 22870.
No, it's not, it's moved because we had a look at that thing 235, I think it was it.
OK, let's have a 26216.
262008 OK, no debts, no liabilities, but need to obviously keep 110th of the car
and then pension
and the pension and also I probably want to leave the Microsoft shares where they are.
I'll I'll do all of that.
This is Money that I won't take into equation.
So that money, the 100, the pension and the card is money that's gonna be spent come out of your equation.
You see what I'm saying exactly, and the shares I will take out anyway.
So brilliant.
You can't invest what you've already invested if that makes sense.
Yeah, that makes perfect sense.
So.
Lasting.
10/20.
It's because it's cold.
I know.
And it's not warm in here.
I was expecting it to be warm.
And I said to these guys, of course you told me and I could have actually put a jumper on something warm on, but instead, oh, never mind.
So that's gonna take 112 out.
OK, so that's the 100 for your granddaughter, If that's what you decide to do, obviously.
We'll talk about that in a second.
10,000 of your car and 2800 for the pension.
Perfect.
Yeah.
If you take that out, what you've got left is 149.
1000, OK, OK.
So you've got 149,128 out of that.
You know, we talked about the emergency part where you can get access to it straight away in case something happens, not the medium one where it's still cash reserve exactly.
So do you know how much you'd need to keep or can give you guidance?
I'd need guidance
probably I would say minimum 4000 in the first part, yes,
yes, sounds good.
OK, the second part.
Again, do you know how much you would want to keep or can give you guidance? Again,
guidance again, I would say,
OK, so I would say minimum 30,000, OK.
And I'd include the 4000 in there.
OK.
Yeah.
Would that be OK? Yeah, No, that
sounds good.
HM take away the 27 that you've already got in the shares, So the maximum you can invest, if you wanted to, would be 92,000.
Sure.
OK,
Yeah.
Yeah, No, I'm happy with that.
So it'd be good to see what I could get in terms
of return for that.
Yeah.
So I would because there's advice.
So shall we say 90? Yeah, because there's an advisory service fee.
So the money has to come out of
what you've got.
Oh, sorry, they're advisory fee was
how much two percent, 2%.
So that be on top 2018
hundred.
Yeah.
OK, I do Now is that a one off
fee did you say? And then no interest or anything else comes off after that
the management fees and there's a hub fee, which again I'll explain that.
You at unexpected tell you all the charges on it? Yeah, yeah.
OK with that.
Yeah, sure.
Again, it depends on what you want as well, because obviously with the IG, what you want to do with that first or do you know what I mean? So exactly,
yeah,
let's talk about that in a second.
Right, let's get back into.
So now we've worked that out, we worked out HM emergency funds you're going to keep, which is 4000.
Don't take.
We'll keep that from.
Yeah.
You have made a will.
You said I have.
Yes.
Happy.
Recently had it reviewed.
Yes.
When was that?
Last year.
OK, excellent.
It's
drawn up in the UK, isn't it? Yeah.
OK, sounds good.
Yeah, children.
OK, no problem.
Right.
I'm gonna go through.
We're gonna go through how the investment market works, first of all.
So we're gonna go through risk.
HM the first parties were when you talked about the page.
I'm just gonna educate you how the investment market works, the different asset classes.
HM so that's what I'm gonna explain to you now.
But before I do that, I just need to do this, so.
For me.
Move until I've done this, you say so.
Yeah.
There we go.
OK.
Right, so
I've got this brochure for you which is here.
i'm gonna go through it on here which makes it a little bit easier
for you sure OK so that investing
mm-hmm planning your investment goals with us should you save or invest the path to investing what's inside your investment OK.
Where is your money invested? So the money when we invest your money, we just don't invest in one area, the four different asset classes to give you that further diversification.
So cash proportion of investment is likely to be held in cash.
Having cash in your investment lowers your exposure to risk.
However, it's good to remember that cash is devalued when inflation rates are higher than interest rates.
Exactly.
And that's the reason why we're here, isn't it? Mm-hmm.
So you've got enough in cash, but obviously we need to look at something else and try and keep that going.
Bonds.
Bonds are typically offered by companies or governments who use the money raised to fund projects or operations.
When investing in bonds, you commonly benefit from a fixed return over an agreed timescale.
However, as bonds are linked to the financial security of the issuing organisation, they carry a certain degree of risk.
UK government bonds are classed as the lowest risk compared to the corporate bonds.
To be honest, that was where I was heading next I think was a good UK government bonds because I think they've got the highest interest rate at the moment.
I'm compared to banks and building societies, etc.
So how this works is like for example, if the government needed to raise some capital, they've come to financial institutions like us, you know about bonds,
do a little bit, just that little bit, but keep going, keep going,
come to financial institutions like as we lend them that money could be five years, 10 years or 100 years.
The nominal value will always come back.
The risk element is because they bought and sold on the Stock Exchange, so interest rates going up and that has an impact as well.
Yeah, company bonds.
She's corporate bonds.
So government bonds are called guilt company bonds, called corporate bonds and these are with companies who need to borrow funds and that could be higher risk because if companies can't promises or go into liquidation that can have an element of risk.
However, we don't invest in one bond, it spread out.
Sure.
So your balance is yeah,
OK, yeah.
Property investing commercial properties such as warehouses, offices and shopping centres connects your returns to the properties value and rental income.
Compared to cash and bonds, investing in property can generate higher returns and protect your money against inflation.
However, property values can still drop, and any properties that proves hard to sell can cause delay should you need access to your money properly.
Shares, owning stocks and shares is also known as equities, typically refers to own a portion of a publicly traded company.
So the share that you've got, for example, that's a single company share, you have voting rights, you get dividend income and the share price goes up and you get the value of that share.
That's the highest risk.
And Mango Bank won't invest in single company shares, Sure.
And the reason it won't do that is so for example, you invested this 90,000 in BHS last year, what would have happened?
Exactly, yeah.
But if you invested in Amazon and BHS do you think would have happened
it should balance itself and that's what we do,
that's it's portfolio investment.
So when you invest into a portfolio you don't get dividend income whatever it generally well you don't get it to you, whatever it generates goes back into the fund sure.
And it's professional fund managers managing this portfolio for you HM So that it calculated risk the manager forward-looking projection.
What these fund managers do, they have afford, look at the educated HM so they know what they're doing.
So there's market conditions.
They know everything that's happening.
There's times when they don't know.
It's like COVID couldn't predict that.
However, saying that HM.
Before we went and we had COVID in March, the fund managers knew something was happening in November, so their charts started moving the funds.
They didn't expect it to be the way it was and predict what was gonna happen, but they knew something was happening, so they started moving funds around.
HM.
Ukraine and things like that, they can't predict things.
Certain things they can't predict.
But parliament changes, government changes.
They already have those equations in mind anyway.
It's just when something's drastically happened.
Course
they can't predict, but they are professionals who are actually managing.
That's what I'm saying that we're so must have obviously not had the right.
Well, you know, it was painful.
It definitely, because we were paying them to lose money, basically.
Yeah.
So you're paying more than you are making, really.
Setting an ambition to beat inflation.
So if you had 10,000 in 2007 and you just leave everything in cash, that value actually is gonna drop by 5900.
84 And bearing in mind that just no offence, you are still young,
you've potentially got another at least
1520 years exactly
and
obviously if we don't keep in pace because you've got state pension coming in four years time, yes, so that'll help boost as well as well.
So you can have,
I mean at the minute you've got
just 14.00.
So what I'm thinking is obviously if we're investing this money, there's only you've just got enough incoming outgoings going out
HM.
How would you manage? Obviously I guess we've put more in there, holidays, not holidays and Christmas and birthdays.
So would you sort of reduce that? Would you live to your means? Is that what you would do? HM
possibly.
But now I think we've, as I'm getting older, I'm thinking of dipping into pots for holidays and things like that, OK, Because yeah, I I personally, I think the next 10 years will be the time when I'm still mobile and able to get around and enjoy it.
So I'm thinking the next 10 years I want to be able to enjoy.
And live quite comfortably.
OK.
But you haven't got the surplus you are saving for holidays
on your saying that's it within it.
So that's probably I'd still for the holidays that I would expect I probably need to dip into the medium fund or something emergency medium plan.
I would see that as being part of the the pots that I would use if
that's fine.
I just wanted to make sure because obviously there's only small shortfall.
Yeah.
So it's
disposable income.
I just wanted to know where you get
it from.
So if you need exactly it's pot.
That's fine.
That's what it's there for anyway, isn't it? Yeah, OK.
Time in the market, not timing the market.
So this is what happens in the stock market.
And these are the four asset classes that have just gone through and how they've behaved in the last 15 years, OK.
So when you invest, obviously anything that happens in the economy has an impact on the investments as well.
So if we look at the cash line, which is a grey line.
What do you see it doing over the last 15 years? Yeah, exactly.
And the yellow line is inflation, so you can say.
Is eating into it? Yeah.
So yes, keeping everything in cash isn't a good idea.
But like this money, if we invest in the right place, say 5-6 years time, you can start drawing it and do holidays if you wanted to do you know it's there to you've not got anything planned, but it's there if
it keeps,
yeah, and that's why it's work.
It's a good idea to split it really in a way, isn't it? But then if we look at property.
It's sort of didn't do anything.
Started picking up in 2013 and that's beating inflation as well.
It started dipping now, but it's beat inflation as well.
It has done.
But as you say, I can see everything is heading down, isn't it? Over the next few years that's gonna be the concern.
Not for you.
No, no,
no.
And go back up again potentially.
If you were drawing out or you were drawing your pensions out or something like that, then yeah, maybe you need to think about it.
But if things are going down, I'm not saying they're not going down even further, but that's the right time potentially,
to start resting.
So yeah, you can either up high on them.
Yeah.
When it comes back.
Yeah, hopefully, hopefully.
That's what I'm saying.
But we don't know.
We don't know.
But
obviously it's better than
exactly being at the top.
Yeah.
And then we've got the bonds.
These are the gilts and corporate bonds that we were talking about.
As well.
And then we've got shares.
Yeah,
cool.
And obviously
they're all in the investment market and obviously they all fluctuate in the stock market.
The reasons they've obviously gone up and down in 2008.
The stock market and the property market did because the Bank of England reduce its interest rates to nought .5 bond market growth.
Then we had the referendum in 2016 again.
At that time, to be honest,
both regroup, yeah,
because everybody thought the world was gonna end.
But the stock market did the opposite.
Then COVID.
Bond market carried on a property market did a U-turn, stock market went down, but then it picked up again by the end of 2021.
But then we had Ukraine which obviously the stock market still carried on but the bond market started coming down and then the mini budget which has the work.
Yeah,
yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
OK.
But what is trying to show you here is that by spreading it
and over time it will as you can see.
Yeah.
The path to investing.
So when considering investing your money, it's it's good to run through a few cheques to make sure it's suitable solution and the right time for you.
Deal with that.
You haven't got any.
Yep, be prepared.
When investing, make sure you have enough cash put to one side to deal with unexpected emergency or planned spending, which we have done, and set an investment goal.
Know what you want to achieve from your investment so you can take on the right level of investment risk.
Are you investing for a specific purpose? Well, you're not really.
You just want us to grow for yourself.
Will you want to use this as an income in the future?
Potentially not or potentially not, but I think I'm again it might be looking at inheritance, HM planning at that point, yeah.
Or you may take it
out to holidays or
bits and bobs that you may want to do.
So not an income but just to grow.
So obviously if you did a holiday for 5000 now in 5-6 years time that I'm gonna be the same holiday exactly.
So keeping up with that maybe that's might might be using it for four years time because you're gonna get a state pension.
I don't
think you're really on this morning.
As an income,
but maybe to
dip into as and when you want to
or you know, leave it invested just to read out as and when you want to
or exactly
fact.
Thinking about it, am I doing it the right way round? Because the next four years they're probably gonna be the toughest years that I'll have until the state pension comes in.
But I'm thinking I've managed to sort of for four years on that and savings up to date.
And then if I have those pots of money, I think my big expenditure will have gone out this year.
So yeah, I mean, it should be alright.
If I can do that, then yeah, should be fine.
OK.
It's nice to go through this because you think as well, doesn't it? Yeah.
Yeah.
Are you invest, looking to invest? Look, you are.
And there's not enough to actually do a regular amount as you, as you can see.
Be comfortable with uncertainty.
So as your investment is linked to the success of certain shares, bonds, property, there will be times when you see this value drop.
Keeping focused on your goal and time to invest rather than the short term shifts will help you avoid making impulsive decisions.
So when we say five years, the recommendation doesn't mean that you can't get access to your money.
I don't want you to be drawn in this money out when he's gone down.
Yeah.
And that's why there's enough in your cash in emergency funds that you can leave this share.
This is Money that you want it to grow for you.
Mm-hmm.
Doesn't make sense.
No, it
does.
Yeah.
So we don't.
I don't want you to.
If it's made money and you want to draw it out, there's no charges for it.
Sure, it's just.
If it's not, that's why we all say five years.
So you know this is a long term investment.
Yeah,
yeah,
spreading your investment.
So spreading your investment means go, means you aren't placing all your investment eggs in one basket.
Yeah.
But this enables greater asset diversification.
So that dips in some areas may be compensated by increases and others.
Time in the market of effect phrase time in the market emphasises the importance of sustaining invested for the long term.
It's advisable to review your investment on a regular basis to ensure you keep your goal and track.
And making investments not purely just considering the level of risk, we'll go through everything and have that conversation.
And like I said, you know there's different management styles as well, which I'll explain to you a little bit further down.
So talking about diversification, so if you investing in 90,000 and you're investing in a medium risk, this is just an example.
Medium risk with Mango Bank, how would it be diversified? So you'd have 7% in cash, 33% in bonds, nothing in property and 60% in shares.
And this is what you were taught
high you were talking about,
but it's further diversified? And it's in 78 countries.
1025 companies.
So when I said we're restricted, yeah.
Is this all on being risk adverse or is this on this is on a medium risk, medium one? Yeah, OK,
this is an example of.
Obviously your risk
would depend on once we've gone through the risk.
Questions and your personality and behaviour of the risk.
But it just means just by having an open mind on looking at what options are out there.
Yeah, yeah, the level of risk
is what you want at the end of the day, which is what we're work on.
But this is on a medium risk
example of a medium risk, but it just shows you that it's not just.
Spread out in the classic classes, countries and continents
where you and I wouldn't even know exactly.
You're right.
No, absolutely.
And that's why I say when they take, it's like if you bet on a horse that there's no calculated risk.
It's only one
here.
You've got professionals and managing it, knowing what's happening.
They're doing it for you.
Mm-hmm.
And you would expect.
HM those fund managers to do the job
for you.
Exactly.
And that's why that W that's what worries me.
Yeah, I mean,
I'll show you when I do go through a presentation next week.
We have one the money manufacture awards for being the best stocks and shares ISA providers.
2nd.
Hopefully reassuring, yeah.
Just gives you that little bit of reassurance
as well.
I mean obviously if there's markets are going down, they're gonna see your funds go down as well, but realistically now you should know anyway because you will get statements, but you'll know daily what it's worth, yeah.
And hopefully, but as you say, we're coming to the bottom of it, it should bounce back up.
Yeah,
hopefully, we don't know next year, but yeah.
Balancing risk with the benefits of investing.
So there's all kinds of risks when you invest.
I'm just gonna go through a few inflation risks we've gone through.
Liquidity risk is basically if you own a fixed.
Bond or a fixed term investment? You can't get access to it.
That's liquidity risk.
Yeah, yeah.
Investment risk, you're going into the investment market, so you will see money going up and down.
There is that element of risk, that fluctuation, volatility, sure.
HM, Yeah, do you understand that? And currency risk, your money will be invested abroad, so bringing it back into the UK, the conversion rate.
Yeah, yeah.
Because even if it's in cash, there's still that risk, isn't there?
Hmm.
There's all kinds of risks, isn't there? And then.
Say it's just, it's just hoping that they get the balance of it right somehow.
Yeah.
And it
it depends on the risk you're comfortable with, depends on how they diversify for you as well.
Sure.
Yeah, obviously a higher risk, you're gonna get a higher return maybe, but you stand to lose more as well.
HM deposits, so this is protection obviously under the deposit
umbrella it's 85,000,
OK.
Investments, like I said, come under a different umbrella,
Once I know what you're gonna do, I'll explain
that to you more than is that another 85,000? So that would be about right because we say there's 92.
So basically
if you think about if you're investing in shares, bonds and whatever shares, bonds, it's an A portfolio, it's it's invested, but it's not understand and it doesn't come under Mango Bank.
Balance sheet.
So Mango Bank were to go insolvent, the investment would carry on,
that's right.
But what about the difference, the 5000 difference? What it is, is the
fact that if Mango Bank were to go insolvent, yes, and you felt you were miss, sold, misrepresented, other fund managers weren't doing what they needed to do, then you there's a rise to claim up to 85,000.
But realistically
if you think about it the way it's invested.
And carry on anyway.
It'll be held with a third.
If Mango Bank were to go insolvent, what would happen then would be if they kinda, if they're looking at if my fund manager and looking after it, if they became insolvent and we're no longer there, what would
happen held by third party, it's still carry on.
If that third party went, there'll be another party
so that what happens.
So to with that third party you don't have any control over their charges.
No, no, no, no, no, no, nothing like that
so.
The charges and everything
the fund managers
will charge you, which are going through, yes, but what I'm trying to explain, the money that you're investing in shares, bonds, your owner of those shares and bonds.
So it doesn't come under Mango Bank's balance sheet.
So it's invested in companies and separately.
So Mango Bank were to go and solve them.
That'd be best, will carry on,
right? Does that make sense? It kind of does.
But what do? Why do they say then that they'll they'll cover up to 85,000
if Mango Bank did go insolvent? Yes.
And you felt that I didn't give you the right advice.
HM the fund managers weren't doing what they needed to do, then you could have a right to claim up to 85.
I'll give you an example.
I had a customer many, many years ago who was advised by independent financial adviser to invest
this amount of funds.
Not independent financial adviser was gaoled for misselling.
And she claimed on the FCA and she got at that time was up to 50,000.
She got 50,000 because she had invested whatever she invested.
But that's the kind of coverage you have, right.
OK.
Does that make sense? Yeah.
But you're only investment because the money that you're investing is in shares and bonds is not an at the minute your money's understand under.
Yeah.
Balance it's of Mango Bank, It's under the, of course, up to 85.
But if invested, it's out of Mango Bank's balance sheet.
Yes.
Obviously your owner of that shares those bonds, you're it's an investment.
OK, Yeah, yeah, no problem.
How easy would that be to at the end of, I presume if you've we would put a term on it, so say five years would be the minimum.
I'm presuming is what you'd be looking at at the end of that then maybe to start looking at inheritance planning then would that make sense? Entirely up to you because obviously this money is gonna grow as well for you.
Exactly HM.
So it would be right to wait till the either.
Before we start or at the end of the term, it's entirely doing it,
OK, but obviously I can't
give you inheritance advice, so that's why you need to weigh up whether you want me to do it for you or you wanna take inheritance
advice first.
So you just need to weigh that up, OK, before we go through the recommendations and obviously you need to
see what
I mean.
You are quite young, but there is an inheritance liability there, so.
It is, yeah.
That's definitely something I need to give a lot of thought to now and maybe speak to somebody about to find out what they recommend.
HM But I mean, whatever happens, I'm really need to invest regardless because if it just sits there, it's gonna lose anyway.
So yes,
yeah, I mean, I won't be able to see you next week anyway.
So you'll be in the new year,
so you might have
a chance to speak to somebody and I can sort of, we can speak and
sure.
In the interim, I'm just wondering should I move some of that to and open another account elsewhere just while the money is physically sitting there? HM because it is only 85,000 that's guaranteed at the moment, you can do.
We want to
but if you look back have any banks will be inside is gone.
Ohh, I know, but it's just you know if you feel quite had so much portable.
Yes you can if that and then bring it back.
I mean it would be quite easy to just close the accounts or whatever even if they were current accounts.
I'm not expecting them to own me very much but just so that the money makes you feel better, you can do but the reassurance would be there hasn't
been any banks
it depends on how you feel.
OK Is my current account the best place for it until we meet again.
So I'll just have a look.
Might be worth just moving into a savings account, which you have got if you're not.
I do.
No, that's
Mum's account, isn't it? Yeah, no, the ISA wouldn't.
So you could actually you do online, don't you?
I do.
So open a savings account online, just transfer funds over from the current account to the savings account.
That's Mum's account is, yes.
So you need to keep that separate.
Well, I want to close that one down eventually.
There's an you saver online.
OK, it's an instant access account, but it takes obviously you could transfer up to 200,000 or less than because you get HM one 1.75% up to 20,000, so 198,000 something.
To think about because I I just think current account is probably no.
So that way it keeps it separate.
Yeah, but then it's not showing on your current account when you're using current account.
Then if you wanna go ahead and do, I can just take it out of that can't anyway.
Yeah,
OK.
I'll think about that one tonight as well.
If I can then yeah, just go online.
It's simple.
Just open anything for account and this transfer funds.
It's an instant access account HM and it just keeps it away, doesn't it?
It does.
Yeah.
Isn't Everyday Saver account on there as well? So you can choose, but that one doesn't pay, the other one pays a little bit more so you
can choose which one you want to.
We do that.
Yeah.
No, that sounds good.
Yeah, thank you.
But it just keeps it away from the current account, doesn't it?
OK.
And then.
The only thing I'm gonna talk to you about here is the active and the passive investments.
So this is the management style.
So active investment management is where the fund manager makes active investment decisions based on their view of the potential for capital growth.
So they active fund manager, he goes into the markets itself and buys those funds, then they actively manage it.
It's a hands on approach, the try and beat the index to give you that greater growth potential because it actively managed ongoingly.
OK, the charge is a little bit higher.
Just Gonna say now, passive investment management style is where the funds performance aims to mirror track that other market index.
So with a passive fund, the fund managers buy other funds.
Bye,
Shroder MG those are just examples.
They go into those funds, sure they don't have a hands on approach and they sort of mirror and index like FTSE 100 index because they have not got the hands on approach.
They'll still grow, but they're the charges a bit less.
Yeah.
So it depends on what you prefer.
Do you
do you think they balance each other out or in terms of fee versus the extra income
you pay you, you get what you pay for, isn't it?
If they do you is the thing.
I mean it it it it we worth paying the slightly extra if you know that the income is gonna be higher anyway,
potentially what they're trying to do, they're trying to get you that greater growth potential.
So if you're after that greater growth potential,
you might as well pay the extra.
But it doesn't guarantee in which case like last time, I could end up being the wrong side of it.
Yeah.
But then again you can review in a few years and see what yeah options.
And see what you risk
at that time was.
So it's
yeah, it's a choice that you could, it's good to know the options
exactly.
OK.
So let's go back
to.
That's fine.
So now what we're gonna do is gonna go through the rest of the risk profiling, So bear with me a second.
OK.
So here what I'm gonna do is I'm now we're gonna obviously establish your risk profile, OK.
And and this is a sort of a broad holistic approach to capturing basically your risk personality.
HM
And you shouldn't think too much into it.
Really, it's just.
Overthink.
The response is there's it's three activities that you're gonna go through.
Yeah, there's no right or wrong answers.
The results just help to establish, ER, more of an accurate understanding of your.
Miss Personality.
OK.
Yeah.
You OK with that? And then it helps me to sort of provide the best solution for you.
So you're gonna take them out in a bit and you're gonna do it yourself.
So first of all, let me just go through this with you, OK.
So there's three activities, risk, future, and loss.
And we'll focus on this.
So the risk one's the first one.
It's less talk about risk.
We wish we could tell you that investing is a sure fire way to make money out of out.
Of course.
You can't.
You know that.
Yeah.
Although investing of the long term may reduce the risk, it is always possible you will lose some money on your investments,
yeah.
And the following ten statements aim to Gorgeous feeling towards risk.
There are no right or wrong answers.
Choose honestly and we'll be able to recommend the investment you feel most comfortable with.
OK, there you go.
All right.
HM.
No, these are it's tricky ones because yeah.
And Chance,
yeah.
Yeah, absolutely.
HM Yeah, go.
Definitely.
Yeah.
Yes.
Can do, but
it's fine if you don't take a few I suppose.
So I'd say on that one.
You think so? Yeah.
Yeah, no.
If it if not, if it's the stupid one, then I'm certainly not
like that a lost one is there.
So it says investing in different is different from saving to potentially gain high returns, you accept the possibility of losing some of your money.
This activity evaluates the amounts of gains versus losses you feel comfortable with, right?
Land.
Losing 10 but also 50% chance of gaining 80.
How would you feel about it?
So that's that's when it's running,
yeah.
OK.
This is where it started.
That would be the last one.
I would say no.
No.
Definitely no.
8040 It's gone up again, isn't it? 5050 well.
No point.
There's no way.
No.
How completely the other way? I can't believe it even put them in there.
And the future?
So this is investing is about the future.
Your choice of investment today will impact the money you could receive tomorrow.
This activity looks at how time affects your choice.
I'd rather have.
HM.
Yeah.
Louis, there you go.
I thought it would be.
Yeah.
Would be, yeah.
It kind of makes sense, I guess, at my age anyway.
That just works it out for you, so.
We have a boundary score.
Mm-hmm.
Between 19 and 31.
For a low risk, you're 28.49.
What does that mean?
That means Big Bang right in the middle, isn't it really right? Yeah, 28, it's up to 31 is low risk would be.
Yeah, yeah.
So you see, yeah, no, it's
comfortable, right.
Yes.
Obviously returns on low risk.
I understand it's gonna be a lot less than medium or high risk.
So sorry, can I just say that's fine, I'm busy.
Vicky.
Good.
Thanks.
I've just in a meeting at the moment,
I'm
now is is no, no, no, it's all right.
Can I call you back
shortly? OK.
No, don't worry.
Thank you.
Bye.
Background.
04 and a half Ah.
OK, so let.
Itself,
right.
So now what I'm going to do, I'm gonna go and we're gonna look at a forward-looking projection, what's called the investment return forecaster.
Before we do that, I'm gonna go through three questions, which is what we talk about.
Emotional.
If you lost this money, how would you deal with it? So it's gonna ask you three more questions on here, which I'm just gonna bring it up for you.
One second.
In one place, by mind.
So we're allocating 92,000, that's 90,000, sorry, that's what we're looking at.
OK, so we calculate the capacity for loss questions like I said, emotionally how you feel.
So the question, first question.
Let's see the value of it full also.
Would you keep your money invested or? Yes, I probably probably would.
And why would you keep it invested?
It maybe just depends.
Hoping it was a bad time and it would have time to recover.
Give it time to recover, yeah.
Question 2.
HM.
Yes, the same thing again.
I think I would use other money.
Yeah, yeah.
Last one.
Just in the future, yeah.
Last one, yeah.
And why is that? Because you've
again because I, I hopefully I would have enough money and hopefully again give it time to recover, but there would be a time limit on that.
Obviously it wouldn't be forever.
OK, no problem.
OK.
And the last one.
Probably moderately.
For later on, I would say
moderately.
I'd managed BS, Yeah.
Yeah.
So second one is moderately, Yeah.
And why is that
again? Because if the money failed, I'm thinking again on the inheritance side, because This is Money that I've put aside for my daughter.
Really.
HM And it would be her standard of living, rather than mine, that would be affected by it.
Not yours, that's what you're saying.
It wouldn't have an impact on,
probably not on mine, but it would on.
So it's going OK.
So the money's obviously that you don't see having an impact on you from what you're saying.
OK, no problem.
OK, so.
That was a high.
So overall doesn't mean that it's changed it you still lower risk that's
you absorbing that loss.
You've got quite a high.
Sure.
OK.
So
let's just go through overall, you're still lower risk.
So I'm gonna go through and just explain.
Mango Bank levels of investment risk, so lower risk, This is where you are.
OK.
So this is when you want to introduce a small portion of risk to aim for modest growth over your time to invest.
Yeah, lower risk investments are pro predominantly in bonds,
which
is what you were saying anyway, isn't it? Yeah.
Although they can include some shares as well as small portion in cash.
Yeah, that kinda makes sense.
Does that make sense? Yeah.
Does that feel it feels probably where I was looking to go anyway.
Yeah.
OK, so you're comfortable with that? Yeah.
OK, no problem.
OK, so now what? We're gonna look now we're gonna obviously, like I said, we're gonna look at a forward-looking projection, OK.
There's no right or wrong answers, OK? And we're gonna use the lower risk because that's what you've come out as and what it's gonna analyse is the most likely return, the high return and the lowest turn.
And like I said, it's just a prediction and it's not designed by Mango Bank, It's been designed by Moodys who use analytical and plotted.
On a graph to give you the most likely return, the high return.
And now the beauty of this is it doesn't include the advisory service because you pay that separately, but it includes the ongoing charge for the management of the fund.
And there's a platform fee that includes all the charges in there, right.
OK, Yeah.
OK.
So let's have a look at this.
Right.
So like I said it's a generic, it's over a 10 year.
Because it says there's no time scale is there.
Now it looks at real times term terms or nominal terms.
Now real terms means includes inflation and nominal terms it doesn't include.
So with obviously you wanting to, I presume do you want
including inflation? OK.
Now then it says target lump sum.
So do you have a target lump sum that you want this money to grow to or would you say? You want it to be at least 90,000.
Well, at least 20,000.
HM Yes, I'm I'm trying to think what figure could reasonably put on it, but I would be upset if it came back out at 90,000.
Haven't paid their fees and obviously your fee as well, so probably to at least cover those costs.
With this forecast will cover that.
It will cover it, OK.
So at least 90,000 then, yeah.
OK,
right.
So let me calculate that for you.
So what it's looking at here is the cash part, yes, so it's looking at cash.
So what it's saying here, if you've invested the 90,000 in cash, there's 95% chance that you'd get more than 75,894 after 10 years.
OK.
Including inflation because it's in cash, right.
OK, yeah.
Yeah, it's included inflation, the 50% chance.
It can be worth more than 97,422,
OK,
Then you've got 5% chance of it being worth more than 100 and 25156 pounds.
OK.
So the target chance of that if it let if left in cash is 70%.
Yeah.
If we look at investing into the lower risk, OK, over the 10 year.
It's got 95% chance more than 72,257 bearing in mind it is in the stock market and that's why it gives you that figure.
Yeah.
But there's 50% chance that it could be worth more than 107,426
compared to 97.
Yeah, I mean, the first figure is more worrying, I think than anything.
I I know I said earlier on I'm not very good with it, but that's quite a chunk of money to lose.
But that's because we can't put and these are not guaranteed, they're just predictions.
Sure.
Yeah, now there's 5% chance more then
yeah,
156,005%
is not very high.
My books, I mean, it's a great figure 156, but in reality I'm thinking it's probably gonna go more.
The other side, I'm more worried about 95%, which is virtually.
What it's gonna be, there's only 50% chance it could be improved by quite a considerable projections, which
obviously they're not guaranteed.
I mean I can go back and show you past performance is not a guide to
the future.
But
again, this includes all charges and inflation, everything's included in this.
But it is a bit worried, worrying to think that after 10 years it might drop from 90 to 75,000.
That's
basically because we don't know what might happen in the market.
It's giving you obviously 5%.
Part of what you could get, yeah.
And then a 5% chance of higher than higher and 50% of most likely kind of thing, if that makes sense
to do this.
Yeah.
Yeah, So what the other thing.
I was gonna say for the 50% one to say that it might go up by 7000 / a ten year.
I would start to worry it could you not improve on that even elsewhere.
So this is not a Mango Bank product, just give you an example of a lower risk.
This is why I said it's not been designed by Mango Bank.
They predict on a lower risk analyzer forward.
Look you know in the past used to say give you a blue sky scenario you're gonna do this and people never reach that.
So this is more of a realistic figure, but it's not guaranteed of course.
Just gives you a forecaster of what potentially could happen, and as long as you're aware which you are, but it could be worth less,
you know.
Sure.
We don't you don't want to do that but things which is under our control.
Yeah happens and you're aware of that exactly
yeah.
But what it also you haven't got obviously surplus funds but if you did have and if you wanted to beat the 78% and so for example we did 95 if you had the regular amount that you could put in yeah that 95% if you if you did want to if you had surplus funds, all you'd have to do is put another 217.77 in.
And that give you 90 / 95% chance.
Yeah, but you haven't got that.
It was just an example.
Yeah,
yeah.
But do you see what I'm trying to say? It's just the forecaster, but it gives you a forward-looking projection.
Hmm.
This is, this is kind of what's making me nervous about Banana Bank is because I think that's kind of what happened.
But it ended up going after all that time into the end.
When I show you when I recommend, yeah, then I'll show you the fund it's going in, what potentially it should do.
So do you see what I'm saying? This is just generic obviously lower risk investment.
Then I'll go through and explain what the Mango Bank investment again.
It's not you can't.
I'll show you the ways be the element of risk past performance, I can't
be guaranteed for the future, but it just gives you more of an understanding and that's why
you need to be honest the way things are at the moment.
The past is not really reliable because there's so much recently happened that hasn't happened in the past that it's not giving you a fair.
That's why it's just being a I mean, obviously the way you're investing, you're trying to be inflation exactly
with
investments and the way it's diversified.
Got more of a chance than leaving in cash, but you've got to take the element of risk, which is a low risk in your case, yeah.
Yeah.
OK.
Thank you.
OK with that.
Yeah.
Explain that in
you know you've done well.
OK, fine, that's OK.
Any questions? No.
OK, no problem.
OK.
So that's it.
All right.
OK.
Yeah.
So I'll just ask a few more questions
and then we'll
summarise and we'll come next meeting and then find out what you need to do.
So
what's your understanding about risk? So when you take risk, what's your understanding?
HM For me, I'm not very comfortable with high risk.
I understand that there has to be an element of risk, but the smaller the risk, the better for me.
OK, So what I mean.
HM.
Now when you say smaller, so you're happy with lower risk, lower risk,
yeah, sorry, lower risk.
So you're happy with lower, yeah.
OK.
Why do you want to take risk?
Try and improve the the rate on it so it does keep up with inflation.
HM.
Morning.
OK, Right.
So you said with Banana Bank, you saw it obviously going down.
You are gonna see fluctuations.
Yeah, the nature of the game, isn't it Really.
So you're gonna see that if you do online banking, you're gonna see it everyday, but you do get quarterly statements.
How you gonna deal with that? Is it OK for you, Charlie? Yeah.
How you gonna deal with that, Charlie?
Well, I will keep an eye on it and obviously I expect that there's gonna be a lot of times when it does, but I would want to see it picking up again.
HM rather than we've Banana Bank, it just kept headed in one direction.
I mean I would certainly give it months maybe to improve to sort of see the improvement and up to a year maybe.
But after that if there was still no improvement, I think I would start questioning it.
Yeah,
so obviously if the markets doing well in, in your investments not doing well then.
The market isn't doing well.
And
you know, there's something.
Yeah.
And you're just waiting for the market to pick up and then watch.
Hopefully that improves as well.
Yeah.
So I think from what you're saying, obviously what's happened in the past, I can't speak about.
But yeah, HM, now you're investing for five years plus.
Yeah.
Now if you invested this money in six months time, you and I haven't got a crystal ball.
We don't know what's gonna happen.
And we have another stock market crash.
So everybody's funds are worth less.
Yours has gone down because there has been another.
What do you do?
Good question.
I don't think I could take it out because if it's crashed, it's gonna have crashed everywhere.
So it will be similar to where we were a month or so ago where interest rates were low.
So I would have to try and just ride it out.
Because they've got the chance for it to come back.
Exactly.
Because if you do draw it out, you're gonna lose, gonna lose it anyway.
And it's only been in for six months.
You've got those years to come back.
And that's why we always, when you see that graph, if you look at it, I know it's dipped right now, but over the longer term, over a five year term, potentially, that's why we always recommend five years.
Exactly.
And like I said, at the end of that, there's no term.
Yeah.
So if it's made money, you can take some of it out.
No, I don't want to the Tory when it's worth less.
I would want to do anyway.
That's perfectly fine, no problem, OK.
That's summarise.
And you said you want active management anyway, didn't you? So I took that on board.
You want the funds actively managed.
OK, No problem.
OK, So you're happy to invest for five years plus and 8090 thousand, OK in the lower risk, Yeah?
Yeah.
I'm not reviewing your shares that you've got with your company, so I do recommend you see if you want that reviewed.
Sure I won't be reviewing them.
Financial adviser? Yeah, planned expenditure.
So we've got 100K that you may give to your granddaughter.
HM10 for a car, yes.
And
pension? Yes
880.
OK.
There's no debts that you need to clear.
So the money that you're investing in, the 90,020 of it are wrapping this year's ISA.
OK, you've got.
Cash ISA as well.
So I'd like to transfer that, yes, because that keeps it more tax efficient.
Doesn't it transfer 10,400? So 20 for this year transfer 10,400 previous years.
Mm-hmm.
OK.
Yeah.
What would you might be at the moment it's in the investment, the investment.
So what is the investment is spread out between shares and bonds, 90,000, but 30,400 will be in an ISA, OK.
It keeps it tax efficient.
So the more growth you make the more tax efficient it's the rest will be outside an ISA, OK.
But what I would say is from next April, I can automatically wrap it in ISA, yes, so fund managers will automatically and then that's a good idea.
By the time a few years gone, everything will be isa wrapped.
That'll be perfect.
Yeah, yeah.
HM.
OK.
You have got eyes to liability.
So what are your thoughts now we're talking about all this.
Do you wanna take advice on take advice I think on that because that was quite a lot, wasn't it? We said at the end, so do you wanna do that first before that would see, I think that would make perfect sense, but I I like the idea of the way you've sort of planned things at the moment.
HM So I think once I've taken them on board as well, HM I I'll be able to definitely say we want to do so.
I can't see you until.
Let's just have a look
and see if that gives you plenty
of time to get some.
Should I be doing any of that ISA wrapping at the moment?
Because if you do it then I won't be able to access it.
Access it? So HM.
Right.
I can't see you in the first week.
OK.
Second week, which is week commencing the 9th of January.
Do you think I'll give you enough time to go and see?
I hope so.
It's just as you say, we've Christmas coming now as
well.
Yeah.
I mean provisionally book it then what I'll do is I'll, we'll speak to each other if there's any difference you can.
So if we say, let's just quickly bring up calendar up for January, OK.
So what sort of dates?
Thinking potentially doing Wednesday the 11th, would that be OK? Yeah, lovely.
And I'm thinking roughly this time again.
Yep, 2:00 PM.
Fantastic.
But are they took that advice and then we can move forward giving you advice.
It's not sorted, you see.
That's lovely.
So take that advice 1st and then you let me know how we're moving
forward, definitely.
Like you said, you want you want to do something with
this money anyway, don't need to because HM.
I I don't know what else they'll recommend to to be able to pass it over, but I know there's, excuse me, the seven-year rule, but yeah.
Apart from that, I'm not quite sure what else I can do with it.
HM yeah.
So they'll get guide you through it.
There's there's various ways you can do things and you will give you that guidance on what you want to do and how you because I'm hoping this money's gonna grow for you.
So obviously again
it's gonna
increase in your status and it's.
So let's take your card out.
Bear with me a second.
Bear with me.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Oh well, thank you for today.
It was it was the full 2 hours, wasn't it? I did say I hadn't realised it would really get to quite utter your card.
To to that level but thank you very much.
You don't realise it and think about it, isn't it?
When youm to be honest I think you need to as well because I think the options are there and gives you it makes you think as well.
Yeah.
I think the problem is you see at home I've only been moved there two weeks and I still don't have an Internet and it's so frustrating because it's things like this when you're trying to look things up.
I just haven't got anywhere to do that.
And exactly when I asked you do you have an iPad or because it saves you coming in I could do it through but you haven't.
Yeah, come through says actually
that hopefully on Monday they tell me on Monday I should have it.
So from then like should get easier.
But thank you so much for the face to face.
I'm gonna see you again hopefully.
Let's hope you get
some guidance on your inheritance tax
and that's all I need.
Then
then then that way we can plan it.
So obviously like I said if it's not then we can postpone it.
It's not a problem because they're either you took
that advice I don't wanna mess you around or your time completely on it but I think it looks as if it we're going.
Yeah, definitely.
I'm glad you've definitely
got an idea that risk.
But I'd like to believe it.